The metacarpals are the
long bones in the hand.
If your child has a fifth
metacarpal fracture,
also called a boxer’s fracture,
the bone in the hand that attaches
to the pinky finger has a crack or break.
The most common causes are
hitting a hard object with a closed fist
or falling onto the hand.
If the fracture is at the growth plate
near the end of the bone,
bone growth can be affected and
may require special X-rays or other tests.
Young bones are more flexible than an adult’s,
so a child’s bone may crack or
just buckle without a clear break
instead of snapping like a dry stick.
Your child’s healthcare provider will
straighten the broken bone if it is crooked.
Your child will then wear a cast
or splint from the hand to the
forearm for 4 to 6 weeks.